All writers problem three says consider the Surtur below which resistor has the largest power consumption
so which one dissipates the most amount of power.
This is kind of a good problem here.
So if we're talking about power dissipated by resistance again power equation you can read three different
ways right.
That was the one way we can write it as are-I squared I was also another way and we can also write it
as V squared over our.
So let's start comparing them so we got to compare the three.
I don't want to do I don't want to solve for the entire circuit.
All we have to do is determine which one has the largest We don't actually have to do any math that
we don't want to know the actual value of it.
We just want to know which one is the biggest.
So let's first compare 10 to 1000.
Right.
One thing we know is that the voltage between points Biondi right the voltage between the Point B and
D should be the same as the voltage between Point B and C because both of these are in parallel with
each other.
So that must be equal to the voltage between Point B and C..
So actually if you use now this for use the equation that I wrote.
Let's get this equation over here.
Remember V here is the voltage across that resistor R is the value of the resistance.
So if you compare the power across the 10 arm resistance what you would do is you would say all the
power.
You're right the the power dissipated in this 10 ohm resistance is equal to the voltage across that
10 ohm resistance.
That's what we called the VB D.
You've got to square that value.
And now you divide it by 10.
If you compare it now to the power dissipated by the thousand ohm resistor Well you'd get the voltage
across a thousand words actually the same as this one the voltage B.C which is the same divided now
by 10 is divided by a thousand.
So you automatically see that the 10 home definitely dissipates more energy than a thousand home because
I'm dividing by a much smaller number here.
OK.
So we got this guys the winner between both of those.
Now we have to compare the power dissipated between the 50 and the 10.
So what's the best way of looking at this.
Well you know the current is going to be different.
Right so you have current that's going to flow in here and call it current I and then we have a junction
over here.
So what happens to that current.
Well part of the current is going to flow down here.
Let's call that one.
And part of the current is going to flow through the thousand Let's call this Aitu.
Now you should know from that junction rule that whatever flows into the junction has to be what's flowing
out.
Therefore from that I think you should conclude that the current I must be bigger than the current one
right because we know that I has to be equal to I one plus two.
And since there is only a single power supply you know the current is going to flow in this direction
here and then go back.
All right.
So if you can understand this part I think now we just go back to our power equations now for this problem
here it's probably a little bit easier to use this equation over here.
Again it doesn't matter which one you use there.
I'll give you the same answer however.
Now we're going to compare the value of the resistance and the current flowing through it.
So let's compare the 50 ohm versus the 10.
So the power dissipated in the 50 ohm resistor you would read like this it's 50 multiplied by the current
How much current is flowing through it.
I label that.
And that's squared.
Now I want to compare this to the 10 ohm resistance.
So what do we get.
We get 10.
Now it's the current going through it is I won.
So let's compare both of these things.
Well the resistance is bigger here.
It's bigger than 10 so that number is bigger.
And we also know from what we have over here about our current that the current eye is also bigger.
So if I square it it's certainly going to be better.
OK.
So the largest power consumption then certainly has to be the 50 ohm has the largest value of the resistance
between the 50 and that in the tenth.
And we know that the currents are also going to be bigger.
So 50 is the biggest or the most power dissipated in that 50 ohm resistance so choice number one is
the correct answer for this one.